This was actually the project that I wanted to do as soon as I saw d3, so I am kind of bummed about how it turned out. It was my very first pitch for the second half of the summer and I wanted it to be interactive so hard I initially wanted to wait until we had looked at d3 at least a little bit before trying to tackle it. Then, a few people convinced me it would probably work as a static image, so I decided to give it a try there. As an aside, I know all of this is probably not very interesting if you don't find stuff like explanets interesting at face value; it is not investigative at all, no truths are revealed, etc. Personally, I just think this stuff is very neat, and I think (if I was able to create what I was envisioning) that this would have helped people visualize the reality that planets are everywhere and therefore all of your wildest sci-fi dreams may be true.

Anyway, I tried making a static image. It did not go well. Turns out, trying to represent scale in space is very tricky. The spaces between things are absolutely massive compared to the things themselves, and so the more I tried to scale up the planets, the less anything made sense. I eventually tried to move all the planets out by the inflated radius of my sun, but that did not help. Honestly, just scattering the planets (to scale) about on the page totally at random was a lot more compelling than putting them in some sort of orbit, and a lot less work. So, when I was still working on this when we went to d3, I decided to just convert it to a d3 project and keep on trucking with it.

And then d3 was a nightmare. Nearly 100% of the work (that I actually finished) was torturing my data into a usable json that would allow me to keep nearly all of Mike Bostock's work without changing it. Eventually, I did get all that down and I was able to cram all the planets into a json, but then, since I kept nearly all of Bostock's work, I could not for the life of me figure out how to modify anything. Adding the d3-tip did not work at all, nor did any kind of mouseover. I can't even remember how many things I tried. I would always either not change at all or break completely. Very disheartening. I think I probably needed a little more javascript to make this work. That, or I needed to pare things down more, but the more I reduced my expectation, the more bland this project seemed. I got to the point that I was just staring at white circles, contemplating why I even starting doing this at all.

And the dumb white circles refused to be colored in any way! I wanted them to be at least a little tinted to show their surface temperature, or maybe color them by category, but absolutely nothing took. Because of the way the nested circles were make, everything was either a circle.root or a circle.node or a circle.node.node--leaf and I could not simply select the .node--leaf. I could select all circles, but that did not help. I could also change their color via the css style sheet, but that also did not help. In the end, I basically just gave up. My project is white circles with many, many labels.

And it was supposed to have another part! Maybe this is the part I should have focused on instead, since I would have had to build in fewer things with more control over them from the beginning. I wanted to show how alien solar systems compared to our own, superimposing our sun over their star, or the other way around depending on which was bigger, and then placing all of their planets around their star next to ours around our star. Some of these solar systems are super weird, with like mega-Jupiters inside the orbit of Mercury, and I thought it would be cool to see that represented. What I wanted to do, from my zooming nested circles debacle, was move from one visualization to the other. Like, if you zoomed in to one planet in one constellation, you could click on the planet or click on a button or something, and then you would be thrown into this other visualization. I never even got to touch this part, however, since the other part absorbed my time like a sponge.

Looking back, it's kind of neat, I guess. It actually did represent something I didn't realize about the data, which is that the Kepler mission only looked at a small region of the sky, and discovered just heaps of planets there in a very small period of time. So, Cygnus and Lyra are just massive circles by comparison, because that just happened to be where they were looking. Of course, it also means that there are billions of dumb labels I can't figure out how to do anything with all piled on top of one another, so densely that you can't even see the dumb planets, but you know. In the end, not super happy with it. Not a total failure, but more of a slow disaster.
