This wound up being fairly straight forward, once I had enough speeches to show what I was trying to show. At first, though, when I only had Clinton and Trump and nothing to give any perspective, that was not obvious. My feeling, when I envisioned this, was that Clinton would be up and down, maybe finishing on a high now, while Trump would be just all negative. I was pretty surprised on my first graph, with just the two, that they both trended very positive. I immediately panicked, thinking that I had chosen something real dumb. Then, I decided to get as many speeches as possible that fit the description and see where we went. As it turned out, yes, Trump was historically negative. Negative is just a relative thing here. This kind of speech is going to be mostly positive stuff, insofar as "I'm your candidate yay me" is going to be interpreted as positive by Mike's algorithm.

Speaking of Mike, all credit goes to him for his code and basically the entire idea for this thing. I figured that, if you can detect sentiment in tweets, you should be able to detect sentiment in something longer, like a speech. The candidates had just recently given their acceptance speeches and I follow the news rather a lot, so that was that. I had to decide how exactly to feed the speeches into the algo, and I tried a few different things. First, I just split on periods, but that wasn't quite what I was looking for, since it didn't know when a Mr. or Mrs. or whatever else wasn't actually the end of a sentence. Then, I tried n-grams up to 6, I think, but that was basically meaningless. Since n-grams are formed one word at a time, being reused over and over, and most of the speech is positive, they just wound up being diagonal lines. I settled on a regex statement to detect sentence splits that I stole from stack overflow somewhere, which worked pretty good.

Then, I had to weight the speech for complexity, since a two word sentence saying "stuff good" or "stuff bad" should not contribute as much as a long, complex thought that expresses positive or negative sentiment. I used total word length over sentence length to get a better sense of that, and from there it was just a matter of graphing. Actually, my indexer and my graph code are not even 20 lines, so I was pretty happy with how I got this all to work. I made it spit out the 20 index lines with 20 different colors to make this easier to work with in illustrator, and basically everything else I did in that. The title, any layout changes, the annotation, all of it.
