This project started out as an idea to track the most miserable city in which to be a sports fan (in America) but looking at the history of each city's teams and somehow aggregating badness into one number for each. I was inspired by all the stories popping up about how Cleveland (where I am from) was the most miserable, since it had been over 50 years since any Cleveland team had won a championship, then LeBron James went super saiyan and broke the curse of the mistake on the lake, etc, etc, etc.

Wait a minute, I said. The only thing that matters is championships? That doesn't seem right. As a sports fan, I'm a lot more miserable if my team is in last place than if they make it to the playoffs. And if my team has a good year, but doesn't win a championship, I'm still pretty ok. And furthermore, many cities have more than one team. Does one team winning a championship somehow erase all of the potential futility of any and all others? We live in a world which contains both the Yankees and Mets, two teams which play in the same city, one of which is historically good, the other of which is comically and enduringly bad. I'm pretty sure the average Mets fan, if asked whether or not Yankees championships make them feel better about their terrible team, would punch me right in my face. Clearly, this is not how fandom works.

My final heuristic for charting fan misery would plot both. A championship would zero out misery for the team in question, while the other teams would be independantly tracked. Good years would make up for bad years, while really bad years would count more than middling-but-otherwise-futile years. In my mind, that is how it should work.

I started out using just MLB, and built a scraper to grab every season in which a World Series was played. The plan was to move on from there, but then everything immediately became much more complicated than I could have imagined. There are years (1904 and 1994) in which no Series was played. There are teams which have moved, renamed, moved again, gone extinct, come back, moved again, renamed themselved again, etc. Some teams have played in like six cities ove the course of their history. Basically, I've learned way more about baseball than I ever hoped to know. There used to be a team in Brooklyn called the Tip-Tops. They were named after a bread company. That would have been the silliest thing I learned, but then I had to chart a team that played in Newark, NJ called the Peppers. Yes, there was once a professional team in Newark.

Point is, I had to figure out how to put team contributions into city bins. That was where things went off the rails. I never got my heuristic all the way done. Currently, it can go negative, which sort of makes no sense, and takes no account of championships. I haven't even scraped for NFL, NBA or NHL yet, but the hope is that my systems are good enough that once I do, I could read those seasons and plug the data in like the MLB data. I just didn't quite get there.

I will be coming back to this data later and repitch it once I have things more developed.
